# Rich Dad Poor Dad  
Robert T. Kiyosaki  
ISBN 9781612680194  

## Chapter 1: The Rich Don't Work for Money

1. Poor and middle class people work for money; wealthy people have money work for them.
2. Life teaches you lessons by pushing you around. Most people give up, but some people learn from it and look forward to more lessons.
3. Most people are controlled by fear and greed, so they trade their lives for security or desire.
4. Making more money doesn't help most people because they will only acquire more debt.
5. Most people allow their emotions to control them without realizing it. Learn to see your emotions **and** to see and think clearly.

## Chapter 2: Why Teach Financial Literacy?

1. It's not how much you make but how much you keep.
2. If you want to be rich, you need to be financially literate
3. Understand the difference between an asset and a liability: an asset puts money in your pocket and a liability takes money out of your pocket.
4. Becoming rich is very simple: buy assets.
5. A home is a liability, even though most people consider it an asset.
6. Robert's definition of "wealth" is inspired by  R. Buckminster Fuller: "Wealth is a person's ability to survive so many days forward--or if I stopped working today, how long could I survive?"

## Chapter 3: Mind Your Own Business

1. McDonald's founder Ray Kroc considered himself to be in the Real Estate business, not the food business. McDonald's owns a massive amount of valuable Real Estate.
2. Avoid working your entire life for someone else
3. Many people confuse their profession for their business.
4. Your business revolves around your assets
5. The primary reason the poor and middle class are afraid to take financial risk is because they have no financial foundation and therefore must play it safe
6. Assets fall into the following categories:
    - Businesses that do not require your presence to operate
    - Stocks
    - Bonds
    - Income-generating Real Estate
    - Notes (IOU's)
    - Intellectual Property that generates royalties
    - Anything else that has value, produces income, appreciates, and has a ready market
7. Acquire assets that you love - if you aren't genuinely interested in something, don't invest in it
8. Keep your day job, but build your assets while you work
9. Luxuries should be acquired only with income generated by assets

## Chapter 4: The History of Taxes and the Power of Corporations

1. Robert's rich dad considered Robin Hood a crook, even though many people see him as a hero.
2. The middle class are the most heavily taxed group.
3. Government is incentivized to hire more people and spend lots of money. Business is incentivized to hire as few people as possible and spend as little money as possible.
4. Government is incentivized to avoid having excess money. Business is incentivized to have lots of excess money.
5. A corporation is simply a legal document which creates a legal entity.
6. Financial intelligence is made up of 4 things:
    1. Accounting (financial literacy, or the ability to read numbers and evaluate a business' strengths and weaknesses)
    2. Investing (making money from money)
    3. Understanding markets (supply and demand, market conditions)
    4. The Law (tax advantages and protections)
7. Corporations pay expenses _before_ taxes. Individuals pay expenses _after_ taxes.
8. Corporations can be used as a means of legal protection.
9. Wealthy people own very little, but control a lot through corporate structuring.
10. Robert recommends those with legitimate assets to learn more about corporate structures as a way to take advantage of their potential benefits. He suggests Garret Sutton's books.

## Chapter 5: The Rich Invent Money

1. Financial genius requires technical knowledge _and_ courage. "Often in the real world it's not the smart who get ahead, but the bold
2. Robert believes that many people miss out simply because they have debilitating self-doubt and are afraid of taking risks.
3. Financial intelligence provides more options. Luck is created. 
4. Hanging on to old ideas can be dangerous. Be nimble and ready to adapt to change.
4. Small amounts of money can be turned into large amounts with smart, timely investments
5. Markets go up and down, investments come and go. There are always opportunities to be discovered.
6. There are two kinds of investors - those who prefer "packaged" investments offered by others, and those who prefer to create their own, also known as professional investors. Being the latter requires three main skills:
    1. Identifying opportunities that others have missed
    2. Raising money
    3. Surrounding yourself with smart people who can help you
7. There is always risk - it's just a matter of learning to manage it rather than avoiding it

## Chapter 6: Work to Learn, Don't Work for Money

1. Many people are "one skill away from greatness" because too often they specialize in one thing and would greatly benefit from just one additional skill.
2. Robert's rich dad encouraged Robert to learn a little about a lot of things because the more specialized you are, the more trapped and dependent on that specialty you become.
3. Seek jobs that will give you the skills that you need. Robert joined Xerox's sales program _because_ he was shy and wanted to learn to overcome his shyness and because Xerox's sales training program was one of the best in the world.
4. Knowledge of business systems is very important. Many people make a better hamburger than McDonald's, but McDonald's is successful because they are excellent at business systems.
5. The main skills needed for success are:
    1. Cash flow management
    2. Business systems management
    3. Management of people
    4. Sales/marketing
    5. Communication (writing, speaking, and negotiating)
6. Sales and marketing are difficult for most people primarily due to fear of rejection.
7. The situation you fear most is the skill that you need to learn and conquer.

## Chapter 7: Overcoming Obstacles

1. "The primary difference between a rich person and a poor person is how they manage fear."
2. There are five primary obstacles which prevent literate people from being successful:
    1. Fear
    2. Cynicism
    3. Laziness
    4. Bad habits
    5. Arrogance
### Overcoming Fear:
- Everyone experiences fear.
- Robert's rich dad admired the Texan attitude of "Win big, lose bind - it's your attitude towards the loss that matters"
- Winning and losing are connected. There are no winners who haven't lost.
- "For winners, losing inspires them. For losers, losing defeats them."
- Most people play to not lose instead of playing to win.
- "Building assets don't require difficult math, but it does require courage and the right attitude towards failure."

### Overcoming Cynicism:
- Many people allow their own doubts or the doubts of others to talk them out of acting
- Some of the best times to make money are when others are too afraid to act.
- Doubts and cynicism keep most people poor. 
- "Cynics criticize and winners analyze"

### Overcoming Laziness:
- Staying busy is one of the most common forms of laziness.
- "Greed" is often considered a bad thing, but it has roots in "desire", and desire is often a motivator for good
- One way to address laziness is by embracing desire and asking "what's in it for me?"
- Robert asked himself "How can I afford to never work again?" and he started coming up with ideas, but the hardest part was dealing with the doubt and stories about guilt about being "greedy."

### Overcoming Bad Habits:
- Overcome bad habits by putting new habits in place
- Robert's rich dad insisted on paying himself first, even if he didn't have enough to cover his debts because he knew that it would motivate him to figure it out. If he had paid his debts first and nothing left with which to pay himself, he wouldn't have been as motivated.

### Overcoming Arrogance:
- Every time Robert's rich dad had been arrogant he had lost money because he thought that what he didn't know wasn't important.
- Many people compensate for ignorance with arrogance.
- Ignorance isn't bad if you respond to it by educating yourself.

## Chapter 8: Getting Started

1. Finding great opportunities is easy once you have learned to do so, but learning to do so takes some effort and a lot of people never take the time to do it.

### The 10 steps to awakening your financial genius:

#### 1) Find a reason greater than reality: the power of spirit
- Find the drive or purpose that will drive you to succeed.
- Identifying what you _don't_ want ("I don't want to trade my time for money") can help you identify what you _do_ want ("I want to set my own schedule").
- Your purpose has to be strong enough to sustain you through setbacks.
- If you don't have a strong enough reason, Robert urges you to stop reading any further because the rest of the process will seem like too much work.

#### 2) Make daily choices: the power of choice
- You have the power to choose everyday to be rich or poor or middle class. Your spending habits reflect who you are. **The poor have poor spending habits.**
- Most people choose to be not rich because they convince themselves that they don't care about money or that they will worry about it later.
- Invest in education and learn ideas with which you disagree because it just gives you another perspective.
- Take a long view of wealth that celebrates learning.
- Invest in your mind before assets.

#### 3) Choose friends carefully: the power of association
- Learn from all of your friends - those who are successful and those who are not.
- Many wealthy people report that more people ask them for money than ask them how they made money.
- Avoid listening to poor and frightened people because to them the sky is falling.
- Avoid going with the crowd because by the time the crowd shows up it's already too late.
- Don't try to time the market. Instead, position yourself for the next wave.
- Get "insider trading" information legally by being close to wealthy people who know where and how the money is being made.

#### 4) Master a formula and the learn a new one: the power of learning quickly
- Find a way to make money (take a class, read a book, etc.), put it into practice, and then learn new formulas.
- Robert made millions using a formula he learned in a workshop called "How to Buy Real Estate Foreclosures", so he went in search of new formulas.
- It's not just about faster formulas, but it's about learning formulas faster. **Learn to learn quickly.**

#### 5) Pay yourself first: the power of self discipline
- Self-discipline is the single largest delineating factor between the poor, middle class, and wealthy.
- The world pushes people around and applies pressure. If you can't tolerate financial pressure, you'll never be rich.
- The three most important business management skills are:
    1. Cash flow
    2. People
    3. Personal time
- Many people are familiar with the statement "Pay yourself first", but few live by it
- Paying yourself first even when times are tough takes internal fortitude and motivates you to get creative.
- To successfully pay yourself first:
    1. Avoid large debt positions that you have to pay for. Keep your expenses low and build assets first.
    2. Allow the pressure of coming up short to  inspire your creativity
- This doesn't mean pay yourself first and starve - life is meant to be enjoyed. If you call on your financial genius, you can have all the goodies, get rich, and pay the bills.

#### 6) Pay your brokers well: the power of good advice
- Quality professionals save you time and money and are well worth substantial pay.
- If they are good, the information that they provide you with will only help you make more money.
- Not all brokers are created equal. Find out who much property or investments they own.
- Companies have a board of directors because they know the value of having input from smart people.

#### 7) Be an Indian giver: the power of getting something for nothing
- Get your investment back quickly.
- For each investment, there must be an upside - something for free, like a mini-storage, a piece of land, stock shares, a house. And there must be limited risk.

#### 8) Use assets to buy luxuries: the power of focus
- Don't borrow money to pay for luxuries.

#### 9) Choose heroes: the power of myth
- Following, imitating, and emulating those who we admire is a powerful form of learning.

#### 10) Teach and you shall receive: the power of giving
- If you want something, you first have to give.
- Whenever you feel in need of something (money, a smile, love, friendship), give it first and it will come back in buckets.
- Be generous with what you have and be sure that you are giving for the joy that itself brings, not just to get something in return.

### Chapter 9: Still Want More? Here Are Some To Dos
#### 1) Stop doing what you are doing
- Take a break and assess what's working and what's not.
#### 2) Look for new investment ideas
- Robert searches bookstores for new investment ideas on subjects that he knows nothing about.
- He found _The 16 Percent Solution_ by Joel Moskowiz this way
#### 3) Find someone who has done what you want to do
- Take them to lunch and ask them for tips and tricks of the trade.
#### 4) Take classes, read, and attend seminars
- Roberts searches the internet for new and interesting classes, many of which are free or inexpensive.
- The classes he has taken are why he is wealthy.
#### 5) Make lots of offers
- Make lots of offer when you are looking for real estate.
- Robert often makes on offer of half of the asking price because he knows what it's like to try to sell something - a low offer is better than no offer because the seller can always counter.
- Robert sees buying and selling as a fun game, so he doesn't take it too seriously.
- Always make offers with escape clauses. Robert likes to include a contingency which requires approval from his business partner. His business partner is his cat.
- Many people makes things too difficult and take things too seriously.
#### 6) Jog, walk, or drive certain areas once a month for 10 minutes
- Look for change in areas you are familiar with. 
- Talk to postal carriers, moving companies, retailers (especially new ones), or other people working in the area who might have info about what is going on.
#### 7) Shop for bargains in all markets
- Many people buy commodities when they are on sale at the grocery store, but get scared when houses go on sale due to a declining market.
- **Profits are made in the buying, not in the selling**
#### 8) Look in the right places
- Robert paid 50% of what his neighbor paid for a identical condo because he knew how to purchase foreclosures at auction. Because he paid full price, he had to wait for the price to go up to make a profit. 
#### 9) Look first for people who want to buy, then look for someone who wants to sell
- Robert had a friend who was looking for land to buy - his friend had money, but not time, so Robert found a piece of property larger than what his friend wanted and tied it up with an option. He then sold his friend the piece that he wanted, and bought the land, keeping the remainder for himself for free. Moral of the story: buy the pie, cut it into pieces.
- Most people only look for what they can afford, so they look too small and end paying more and getting less.
#### 10) Think big
- Retailers love giving volume discounts. Gather together a group of people and increase your buying power.
#### 11) Learn from history
- Every successful person or company started somewhere different than their ultimate success.
#### 12) Action always beats inaction

### Final thoughts
- The three incomes:
    1. Ordinary earned
    2. Portfolio
    3. Passive
- When "rich dad" said the wealthy have their money work for them, he was talking about Portfolio and Passive income.
- The key to becoming rich is the ability to convert earned income into passive or portfolio income as quickly as possible.
- Taxes are highest on earned income. The least taxed income is passive income.

# Summary
## What is this book about?
The premise of Rich Dad Poor Dad is that Robert (the author) grew up with two influential "dads" in his life who looked at money very differently. One was well educated, one was not. One was wealthy, and one struggled with finances all of his life. One promoted becoming a highly trained specialist, and the other knew a little about a lot. One who took chances with money and one who lived in fear about it. The hook is that Robert's wealthy dad was the uneducated generalist risk-taker, contrary to what conventional wisdom might suggest. In this book, Robert shares the lessons that his "Rich Dad" educated him with throughout his childhood.

## What are the main ideas?
1. It's important to be financially literate, and most people aren't.
2. The wealthy don't work for money, they make their money work for them.
3. Understand the difference between your business and your profession.
4. Understand how taxes work and how to minimize your tax burden.
5. Risk is something to be managed; luck is created.
6. Greatness comes from a combination of skills, not just a specialization in one thing.
7. There are five primary obstacles that prevent literate people from being successful.
8. Your mentality and your relationship to your emotions have a huge influence on your life.

### Mentality/emotions
- "People shape their lives through their thoughts."
- "There is a difference between being poor and being broke. Broke is temporary. Poor is eternal."
- "I can't afford it" _vs_ "How can I afford it?"
- "When it comes to money, play it safe, don't take risks." _vs_ "Learn to manage risk."
- "The love of money is the root of all evil." _vs_ "The lack of money is the root of all evil."

#### 1) Most people allow their emotions to control them without realizing it. 
- "People's lives are forever controlled by two emotions: fear and greed."
    - They trade their lives for security or desire
        - fear of not having enough money, fear of not paying their bills, fear of being fired, etc.
    - Learn to admit to yourself the truth of your emotions **and** to see and think clearly.
    - If you can learn to be honest with your self about what you a feeling, you can use it to your advantage, or advantage minimize it's potential for harm.
- "For most people, the reason they don't win financially is because the pain of losing money is far greater than the joy of being rich."
- "The primary difference between a rich person and a poor person is how they manage fear."
- "For winners, losing inspires them. For losers, losing defeats them."
- "Failure inspires winners. Failure defeats losers."
- Action always beats inaction
- Luck is created.
- "Often in the real world it's not the smart who get ahead, but the bold"

#### 2) Life teaches by pushing people around.
- Most people never learn
    - They just let it happen or
    - They get angry
- If you can embrace the way life teaches you
    - Can be successful _because_ of the lesson
    - A lot of successful people look forward to learning more

### Wealth-building concepts
- Robert's definition of "wealth" is inspired by  R. Buckminster Fuller: "Wealth is a person's ability to survive so many days forward--or if I stopped working today, how long could I survive?"

#### 1) Rule #1: You must know the difference between an asset and a liability, and buy assets
- The wealthy don't work for money, they make their money work for them
- "Assets put money in your pocket - liabilities take money out of your pocket"
- "Rich people acquire assets. The poor and middle class acquire liabilities that they think are assets."

- Assets fall into the following categories:
    - Businesses that do not require your presence to operate
    - Stocks
    - Bonds
    - Income-generating Real Estate
    - Notes (IOU's)
    - Intellectual Property that generates royalties
    - Anything else that has value, produces income, appreciates, and has a ready market

#### 2) Understand the difference between your business and your profession.
- "If you work for money, you give power to your employer. If money works for you, you keep the power and control it."
- "Job is an acronym for 'Just Over Broke.'"
- "Financial struggle is often the result of people working all their lives for someone else."
- "Get up, got to work, pay bills; get up, go to work, pay bills." - The Rat Race

#### 3) Taxes
- It's not how much you make but how much you keep.
- Taxes are a huge burden especially for the middle class.
- "My rich dad did not see Robin Hood as a hero. He called Robin Hood a crook."
- "Average Americans today work four to five months for the government, just to cover their taxes."
    - 32% of my paycheck is taken out before I get it.
- Wealthy people own very little, but control a lot through corporate structuring.

### Practical advice
- There are five primary obstacles that prevent literate people from being successful.
    1. Fear
        - Everyone experiences it; embrace it.
    2. Cynicism
        - Many people allow their own doubts or the doubts of others to talk them out of acting
        - Many people miss out simply because of self-doubt.
        - Identify the cynicism as "noise". Make smart decisions and persist.
    3. Laziness
        - "Staying busy" is a common form of laziness
        - Use desire (greed?) to motivate you
            - "What's in it for me?"
    4. Bad habits
        - Put new habits in place (focus on what you want instead of what you don't want)
    5. Arrogance
        - Often used to compensate for ignorance (ignorance isn't bad)
        - You can lose money if you convince yourself that what you don't know doesn't matter

#### 1) Becoming rich is very simple: buy assets.
- Acquire assets that you love - if you aren't genuinely interested in something, don't invest in it
- "Start minding your own business. Keep your daytime job, but start buying real assets, not liabilities."
- There are two kinds of investors - those who prefer "packaged" investments offered by others, and those who prefer to create their own, also known as professional investors. Being the latter requires three main skills:
    1. Identifying opportunities that others have missed
    2. Raising money
    3. Surrounding yourself with smart people who can help you
    - "The problem with 'secure' investments is that they are often sanitized, that is,  made so safe that the gains are less."
- Purchase luxuries only with income generated from assets

#### 2) Become financially literate
- It's important to be financially literate, and most people aren't.
- "A person can be highly educated, professionally successful, and financially illiterate."
- Financial intelligence is made up of 4 things:
    1. Accounting (financial literacy, or the ability to read numbers and evaluate a business' strengths and weaknesses)
    2. Investing (making money from money)
    3. Understanding markets (supply and demand, market conditions)
    4. The Law (tax advantages and protections)
- Those with legitimate assets should learn more about corporate structures as a way to take advantage of their potential benefits. He suggests Garret Sutton's books.

#### 3) Learn business skills
- "The single most powerful asset we all have is out mind. If it is trained well, it can create enormous wealth."
- Greatness comes from a combination of skills, not just a specialization in one thing.
- Learn a little about a lot of things because the more specialized you are, the more trapped and dependent on that specialty you become.
- Many people are "one skill away from greatness" because too often they specialize in one thing and would greatly benefit from just one additional skill.
- Seek jobs that will give you the skills that you need. Robert joined Xerox's sales program _because_ he was shy and wanted to learn to overcome his shyness and because Xerox's sales training program was one of the best in the world.
- Knowledge of business systems is very important. Many people make a better hamburger than McDonald's, but McDonald's is successful because they are excellent at business systems.
- The main skills needed for success are:
    1. Cash flow management
    2. Business systems management
    3. Management of people
    4. Sales/marketing
    5. Communication (writing, speaking, and negotiating)
- Sales and marketing are difficult for most people primarily due to fear of rejection.

- Pay yourself first
    - "If I pay myself first, I get financially stronger, mentally and physically."

- The three incomes:
    1. Ordinary earned
    2. Portfolio
    3. Passive
- When "rich dad" said the wealthy have their money work for them, he was talking about Portfolio and Passive income.
- The key to becoming rich is the ability to convert earned income into passive or portfolio income as quickly as possible.
- Taxes are highest on earned income. The least taxed income is passive income.

Chapter 8 and 9 have a lot of practical advice.

- _The situation you fear most is the skill that you need to learn and conquer._

The core message is definitely about understanding the difference between assets and liabilities, as defined by the author. He defines them in simple terms: an asset is something that puts money in your pocket and a liability is something that takes money out of your pocket. He acknowledges that not all experts agree with his simple definitions, but that they are enough for assessing whether or not a purchase will make you more wealthy or less wealthy. As an example, Robert argues that in most cases, a home is a liability, even though most people consider it an asset. He points to the expenses of the mortgage, interest, taxes, and maintenance as evidence of its "liability-ness" - all of these expenses come out of your pocket every month. His classical counter example is that of a rental property where someone else is paying all of those expenses for you, and still potentially providing income on top of that.
